sunlight brings a flush of new greenery
to the forest floor these plant pioneers
now have full access to the endless
summer sunshine fire reid is the first
to stake its claim it flowers through
the hazy days and Alaskans call it
summers timekeeper the flowers unfold
from the bottom of the plant when they
reach the top that's the end of summer
it's a warning
but despite the summer heat the first
snows of winter are only weeks away high
up in the Talkeetna mountains there's
one alaskan who's already prepared
the collared pika
he spent his entire summer hard at work
when the winter comes
his favorite grasses and sedges will be
buried under the snow
but he's not worried he's been saving
food for the lean months ahead
hidden among the rocks is his winter
Lada he's carefully positioned at the
catch the sun's rays which dry and cure
his supply
half a meter wide and 30 centimeters
deep this haystack is his survival
rations he's chosen the contents
meticulously
he's picked some toxic plants these will
decompose slower and keep food for
eating pressure for longer
like all Alaskans he knows that winter
preparations start early and you have to
make the most of summers bounty the Sun
is getting lower summer is drawing to a
close